The DoIt remote-activation protocol
-----------------------------------

DoIt is a simple protocol for allowing remote systems you have
logged into from a PC to connect back to that PC, run applications,
and access the Windows clipboard.

DoIt assumes you have _already_ solved the key-distribution problem;
it relies on a binary shared secret between the two sides. This can
be of any size (encryption and MAC keys are derived from the secret
by cryptographic hashing, so the size of the secret doesn't matter).

At the beginning of the connection, each side sends a nonce to the
other, in SSH2 string form (a 32-bit big-endian integer giving the
length of the nonce, followed by the binary nonce data). Nonces need
not be truly random or unpredictable, just (probabilistically)
unique to prevent replay attacks. An adequate way to compute a nonce
would be to hash the current time.

  uint32                       nonce-length
  data[nonce-length]           nonce

All further communication takes place in binary packets. The packet
format is

  uint32                       packet-length
  byte                         packet-padding-length
  data[packet-length]          packet-data
  data[packet-padding-length]  packet-padding
  data[20]                     MAC

(The packet-padding is random, at least one byte, and brings the
total length of the packet-minus-MAC up to a multiple of the cipher
block size.)

Everything except the MAC is encrypted, using 128-bit AES in CBC
mode. The encryption key used on each side to encrypt outgoing data
is the first 128 bits of a SHA-1 hash of the following:

  char                         "K"
  uint32                       shared-secret-length
  data[shared-secret-length]   shared-secret
  uint32                       our-nonce-length
  data[our-nonce-length]       our-nonce
  uint32                       their-nonce-length
  data[their-nonce-length]     their-nonce

The encryption key used on each side to decrypt _incoming_ data is
therefore the same except that the two nonces are interchanged
(since this is the way round the peer will have generated its
outgoing encryption key).

The IV is derived similarly, but uses "I" instead of "K" at the
start.

The MAC in each packet is an HMAC-SHA-1 of _all_ the plaintext that
side has sent up to that point. That is, after two packets the MAC
will cover the data

  uint32                       packet-1-length
  data[packet-1-length]        packet-1-data
  uint32                       packet-2-length
  data[packet-2-length]        packet-2-data

and so on. The MAC key used by each side for outgoing data is a full
160-bit SHA-1 hash of the following data:

  char                         "M"
  uint32                       shared-secret-length
  data[shared-secret-length]   shared-secret
  uint32                       our-nonce-length
  data[our-nonce-length]       our-nonce
  uint32                       their-nonce-length
  data[their-nonce-length]     their-nonce

The MAC key used on each side to verify _incoming_ data is therefore
the same except that the two nonces are interchanged (since this is
the way round the peer will have generated its outgoing MAC key).

The maximum packet data length is 1024 bytes (to aid verification of
decryption). This is also the maximum length of a nonce.
